what we're seeing is companies are
focusing on what channels what keywords
what audience type Etc are driving the
conversions and they're not focusing on
getting more of those
today we are joined by Neil Patel and
we're going to discover Neil's solutions
to marketers five biggest challenges
welcome Neil anytime thanks for having
me for some context we surveyed a
thousand marketers and asked them about
their five biggest challenges that they
struggled with in 2022 so I'm going to
read each challenge to you and I would
love your answer as to why it's such a
big challenge for marketers and one tip
you have for overcoming that challenge
that works let's do this challenge
number one
62 percent of marketers say that growing
a global audience was their biggest
challenge this year why do you think
it's such a problem for marketers and
how would you combat that challenge you
know what's funny is I've created a
global audience and what I've also found
is once you create a global audience
it's also even harder to monetize that
Global audience but the biggest reason
that we see marketers struggle to grow a
global audiences is they typically focus
on one language Believe It or Not people
either start off in English or Spanish
or Portuguese or they pick a popular
language like Hindi or Mandarin but keep
in mind the majority of the world
doesn't just speak English or Spanish or
Mandarin they're speaking tons of
different languages and the real
strategy and way to
not only create a global audience but be
able to monetize it is you got to
translate and transcribe so here's what
I mean by that you can go find people on
places like upwork or whatever forms you
can within that region or even within
your local community but you need to
find people who are experts within your
industry or know it enough but live in
that country and you got to pay them to
translate and transcribe because
adjusting the words from English to the
other language doesn't always work
sometimes you gotta adjust it for uh
cultural differences and then the reason
you also want someone within that local
region is they need to help Market that
content the website the product the
service whatever you're trying to build
community wise within that region I head
up other sites to get backlinks set up
other social profiles and connect with
them and set up interviews for you you
gotta actually have feet on the ground
and again you gotta translate and
transcribe and that solves it but
without doing that sure you can still
build a global audience even if you
stick to one language like let's say
English but they're not gonna be as
engaged because not everyone within
those regions and speaks English
Challenge number two
56 of marketers say that updates to
privacy regulations is their biggest
challenge right now why do you think
it's a challenge for marketers and
what's one tip for overcoming that
challenge the reason marketers have
issues with privacy changes isn't
because they don't like them or they
like them it's more so every country has
their own rules so you gotta adapt them
from a legal perspective and sure
lawyers can work on terms of service and
privacy policies but you gotta actually
adapt your marketing so for example in
California at least during recording of
this interview you have to have a do not
track option for specifically California
some of the other states may require or
may not require it but as markers you
gotta adjust what you show people based
on the regions that they're coming from
the solution to this is personalization
think about personalizing experience if
someone has dogs you don't really show
them products for cats right because you
know they have a dog the same goes when
someone comes to your website from a
specific region using the geoip you can
you know if it's country-based or stay
database if you're in the United States
you're going to end up adjusting the
marketing messages a little bit here and
there but you will need to connect with
a legal team or Outsource Law Firm just
to make sure that the marketing
campaigns are running are compliant for
those regions or countries Challenge
number three
53 of marketers say that pivoting their
marketing strategy due to Major Global
events like the pandemic recession or
political turmoil is their biggest
challenge what's one tip you have for
overcoming that challenge and why do you
think that pivoting a marketing strategy
in the first place is so difficult for
marketers it is very hard to adapt when
it comes to major events like covet or
pandemic or you know one country going
to war with another country and it
affecting the global uh economy what I
recommend companies do is most of them
try to say all right all hands on decks
what can we do and that's great and you
should end up doing that but think of
the Facebook rule if they're trying to
build a product the amount of Engineers
that they have should be able to be fed
off of one large pizza so when you have
too many cooks in the kitchen in other
words things actually move slower so
what you want to do is figure out who on
your team is agile can move fast and
have a small circle doesn't mean that
you don't update everyone else on what's
Happening and changes they need need to
make but you need a few people who can
just focus on executing and adapting and
changing because if you have everyone
trying to focus at the same time yeah
it's great and there's nothing wrong
with that but it just tends to move
slower because you find a lot of people
go into meetings and discussions about
it versus actually doing it's really
hard to get a thousand people to all
adjust at once but you can get the
leaders on board and a few people
underneath them who are really quick at
executing it doesn't have to be that
they'd be managers it could be lower
level people but just people that you
know that can move fast once you get a
lot of the systems processes change or
some of the steps are any improvements
you need to make then you just need to
distill that information or arrested
team and have them follow suit and just
as a quick follow-up what can marketers
do to stay up to date with trends that
are happening in the industry and
knowing when to Pivot on those people
will have a lot of statements saying
like personalization is dead or SEO is
dead or paid advertising is too
expensive the way I look at it is keep
up with the news there's a lot of
marketing sites that have a ton of news
you guys do a hub saw we do at
neilpatel.com and there's a lot of other
sites that have news like search engines
Inland keep up with that but the bigger
thing is just because you read something
doesn't mean it won't work anymore so
constantly experiment within your
organization and use it for the best it
is and here's the example of that oh
people I've been saying for years
Facebook reaches dying just because
Facebook reaches dying doesn't mean that
there's no Revenue to be made from
Facebook organic maybe not as much as
before maybe you don't put as many
resources behind it maybe you repurpose
content so it's not as expensive but
that doesn't mean Facebook organic
doesn't work doesn't mean that you
should stop it just means hey it's
winding down on how much Roi you can
actually generate organic but use it for
the most you can and whatever it is as
long as it's profitable keep doing more
of it right maybe it's not as good as it
used to be but something's better than
nothing Challenge number four
51 of marketers say that measuring their
marketing efforts and their marketing
Roi is their biggest challenge why do
you think that is and what's one tip for
better measuring your Roi in 2023 the
reason
51 of marketers say they struggle to
measure markings Roi as they focus on
vanity metrics so everyone knows there's
Google analytics you can pay a
consultant to set it up for you you know
at NP digital we help companies with
that but that's not really the issue
there's actually a bigger issue on hat
look at HubSpot you can send out emails
and it converts the money's in the list
you know people call it the digital ATM
but what people do is they focus on
things like visitor accounts and oh yeah
we're gonna set up conversions and you
know Google analytics we're going to
look at first touch last touch
attribution but what they're doing is
they're like oh did our traffic increase
great yeah that's awesome but if you're
traffic increasing your Revenue didn't
who cares what we're seeing is companies
aren't focusing on what channels what
keywords what audience type Etc are
driving the conversions and they're not
focusing on getting more of those so
when you set up your marketing campaigns
and your analytics correctly you
actually need to pinpoint what's driving
the most Roi and double down on that and
it's okay if if your Revenue doubles and
your traffic goes down by half it's not
a big deal if your traffic goes down by
half or even uh 5x if a lot of that
traffic was irrelevant your Revenue went
up so people start focusing on these
vanity metrics and want them to increase
when they don't matter as much like we
see so many companies do like oh my
bounce rate is going in the in a worse
Direction but your revenue and ebitda
went up by 20 so who really cares
finally Challenge number five 47 percent
of marketers reported that generating
traffic and leads was their biggest
problem this year why is generating
traffic in leads such an issue for so
many marketers and what's one tip you
have for generating better traffic and
leads in the future
yeah so Andrew Chen once said all
marketing channels eventually go to
at least all good ones why because they
become competitive saturated more
expensive it's harder to squeeze a Roi
out of them there's a great Advantage
from being early adopter but sometimes
if you're an early adopter on channels I
wasn't an early adopter to clubhouse and
I didn't believe in it because I was
like well you only get value from it if
you're on there and if you're not on
there at the right time it's useless I'm
like this isn't time efficient I'm like
this isn't Gonna Last it's not people
don't have these kind of attention spans
to be on this for like hours a day the
real solution for marketers it's always
going to be hard but the real solution
and this is really the only solution is
to take an omni-channel approach so what
I mean by omnichannel approaches you got
to do paid advertising not just Facebook
and Google but being Reddit Pinterest
Tick Tock you got to try them all out
Snapchat you got to do SEO not just SEO
on Google but there's also being if
you're in the hospitality space getting
your listing for your home hire on
Airbnb is considered SEO as well these
are all examples of SEO when you're
capturing someone on your website you
got a new phone number you got to do
push notifications you got to do chat
you got to do email you actually offer a
lot of these products which is great and
it works and people always say oh no one
opens up email email is dead it's not
dead email sent and received per day was
319 billion emails per day like just
think about it if it's dead why are that
many people sending emails still so in
essence you got to take an omni child
approach with all those channels
including social media repurposing
content and you gotta do it long enough
and be consistent at it don't expect
results in two three months or six
months you got to do it for a long time
there is no Servo bullet there is no one
channel Facebook grew with the invite
flow Dropbox blue through Twitter tweet
and get more space just using one
channel isn't effective anymore because
they're all crowded you gotta test adapt
be consistent do it in the long run and
use multiple channels awesome well those
are all my questions but I do want to
leave it open if there's anything you
want to add when it comes to marketing
challenges in 2022 and as we segue into
the new year last thing I would say is
just stick at it be consistent continue
experiment and learn from your mistakes
and adapt there is no servable it takes
a lot of time no good big company was
built overnight if you look at
organizations like HubSpot darmesh once
had a post I believe I could be wrong on
this I don't know if you guys were a
unicorn before you went public but for
all the years you were public your
market cap increased by at least a
billion dollars in essence the point he
was trying to make is slow and steady
you guys have done well it just takes a
very very long time anything that's
worthwhile right like if you want to
build something amazing it takes time to
recruit amazing people build up amazing
products and services good things all
happen overnight you look at Elon Musk
and how well he's done SpaceX and Tesla
roughly 20 year old companies